README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://badge.fury.io/py/c-formatter-42"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/c-formatter-42.svg" alt="PyPI version" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/actions"><img src="https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42/actions/workflows/python-package.yml/badge.svg" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/actions"><img src="https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml/badge.svg" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://pypi.org/project/c-formatter-42/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/c-formatter-42" height="20"></a>
</p>

<br />

<p align="center">
  <img width="65%" align="center" src="./img/final_back.png">
</p>

# c_formatter_42

C language prettier that conforms to 42 norm v3.
I know you are already a good human norm.
It's just for convenience.

## Installation

Requires Python3.8+ (3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12)

### From PyPI

```sh
pip3 install c-formatter-42
pip3 install --user c-formatter-42  # If you don't have root privileges
```

### From source

```sh
git clone https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42
cd c_formatter_42
pip3 install -e .
```

## Usage

### Command line

```sh
c_formatter_42 < file.c
python3 -m c_formatter_42 < file.c  # If you get 'command not found' with the previous one

c_formatter_42 --help
usage: c_formatter_42 [-h] [-c] [FILE [FILE ...]]

Format C source according to the norm

positional arguments:
  FILE           File to format inplace, if no file is provided read STDIN

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -c, --confirm  Ask confirmation before overwriting any file
```

## Plugins / Extensions

### Vim

Check out the [`c_formatter_42.vim`](https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42.vim) plugin. This plugin automatically installs the `c_formatter_42` package using pip.

### Visual Studio Code

1. Install `c_formatter_42`
1. Install the [`keyhr.42-c-format`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=keyhr.42-c-format) extension
1. Set `keyhr.42-c-format` as the default formatter for C files in `.vscode/settings.json`

```json
{
  "[c]": {
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "keyhr.42-c-format"
  }
}
```

## Contributing

Feel free to report issues or contribute. :)

### Run the tests

```sh
pip3 install tox
tox
tox -e py311  # for a specific python version
```

### Deploy a new version

```sh
pip3 install bumpversion
bumpversion [major|minor|patch]
git push
git push --tags
```

Go to: <https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/tags> and click on the tag you just created.
Then click on `Create release from tag`, the pipeline will build and deploy that version for you.

Commit message:

docs: add note about PEP 668 and --break-system-packages for Debian-based systems

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://badge.fury.io/py/c-formatter-42"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/c-formatter-42.svg" alt="PyPI version" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/actions"><img src="https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42/actions/workflows/python-package.yml/badge.svg" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/actions"><img src="https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml/badge.svg" height="20"></a>
  <a style="text-decoration:none" href="https://pypi.org/project/c-formatter-42/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/c-formatter-42" height="20"></a>
</p>

<br />

<p align="center">
  <img width="65%" align="center" src="./img/final_back.png">
</p>

# c_formatter_42

C language prettier that conforms to 42 norm v3.
I know you are already a good human norm.
It's just for convenience.

## Installation

Requires Python3.8+ (3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12)

### From PyPI

```sh
pip3 install c-formatter-42
pip3 install --user c-formatter-42  # If you don't have root privileges
```

If you're on Ubuntu 22.04 or newer (or any Debian-based system with PEP 668 enabled), you might see an error like:

`error: externally-managed-environment`

To fix this, add the `--break-system-packages` flag:

```sh
pip3 install --break-system-packages c-formatter-42
```

### From source

```sh
git clone https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42
cd c_formatter_42
pip3 install -e .
```

## Usage

### Command line

```sh
c_formatter_42 < file.c
python3 -m c_formatter_42 < file.c  # If you get 'command not found' with the previous one

c_formatter_42 --help
usage: c_formatter_42 [-h] [-c] [FILE [FILE ...]]

Format C source according to the norm

positional arguments:
  FILE           File to format inplace, if no file is provided read STDIN

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -c, --confirm  Ask confirmation before overwriting any file
```

## Plugins / Extensions

### Vim

Check out the [`c_formatter_42.vim`](https://github.com/cacharle/c_formatter_42.vim) plugin. This plugin automatically installs the `c_formatter_42` package using pip.

### Visual Studio Code

1. Install `c_formatter_42`
1. Install the [`keyhr.42-c-format`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=keyhr.42-c-format) extension
1. Set `keyhr.42-c-format` as the default formatter for C files in `.vscode/settings.json`

```json
{
  "[c]": {
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "keyhr.42-c-format"
  }
}
```

## Contributing

Feel free to report issues or contribute. :)

### Run the tests

```sh
pip3 install tox
tox
tox -e py311  # for a specific python version
```

### Deploy a new version

```sh
pip3 install bumpversion
bumpversion [major|minor|patch]
git push
git push --tags
```

Go to: <https://github.com/dawnbeen/c_formatter_42/tags> and click on the tag you just created.
Then click on `Create release from tag`, the pipeline will build and deploy that version for you.
